# GridFix: User Interface for the Correction of Software-Generated Beatgrids for Music

## Installation Requirements

1. Download [rekordbox](https://rekordbox.com/en/), a popular DJ software.
2. Download [audiowaveform](https://github.com/bbc/audiowaveform?tab=readme-ov-file#installation), a C++ command-line application for generating waveform data from audio files.
    * There are instructions for downloading audiowaveform for many types of operating systems, including Windows. However, prior experience has shown that downloading audiowaveform for Windows devices can be quite tricky. Thus, it is recommended that this app is run on a Mac.

## Launching the App 

1. Go to the `dist/myapp/` folder in the Github repo.
2. Download `resources.neu`.
3. Download the executable binary corresponding to your computer's architecture. For instance, if you are on a Mac with an Intel chip, you should download the `myapp-mac_x64` binary. Alternatively, you can just download `myapp-release.zip` (in the `dist/` folder), which contains all the binaries.
4. Run the executable binary you downloaded. If you downloaded the zip file, make sure you are running the binary that corresponds to your computer's architecture.
    * <b>Mac:</b> To run the binary, open your terminal, navigate to the folder where the downloaded binary is located, and run `chmod +x <filename_of_binary>`. Then, either run `./<filename_of_binary>` or double-click on the downloaded file in order to launch it.
    * <b>Windows:</b> To run the binary, double-click on the downloaded file.

When you try to run the binary, your computer may issue a warning about running a potentially untrustworthy program. Override the warning; there should be a button that allows you to do so. 

If you are on a Mac, this button can sometimes be a little hard to find:
1. Open System Settings.
2. Go to Privacy & Security.
3. Scroll down to the very bottom.
4. There should be a warning about the executable that you tried to run and a button that says Open Anyway; press it.

## Other Requirements

In order for the app to work properly, the user must import an XML beatgrid file in the same format as the XML files generated by rekordbox. An example of such an XML file can be obtained by opening rekordbox, going to File, and clicking Export Collection in xml format.

In order for the app to be able to load the beatgrid for a particular audio track, the audio track must be in the <i>same location</i> that it was in when it was loaded into rekordbox.

## Reminders

While using the app, Save beatgrid will overwrite the most recently edited/loaded XML file while Save beatgrid as... will allow you to either write to a new XML file or choose what existing XML file gets overwritten.

If you have questions about how to use the app, there is a Help button located at the bottom of the app window with useful tips.

## Importing Beatgrids Back Into rekordbox

Once you have an XML file containing beatgrid data that you're satisfied with, follow these steps to import the beatgrid back into rekordbox:
1. Launch rekordbox and go to rekordbox -> Preferences.
2. Click Advanced from the options in the left column.
3. Under the section titled rekordbox xml, select the beatgrid file you want to import under Imported Library; there should be a button that lets you browse for your desired file.
4. On the left side of the screen, look for the column of little icons giving various display options. Scroll through until you find the one that is for displaying rekordbox xml. Click on the icon to change to this display view.
    * If you don't see this display option, go to rekordbox -> Preferences -> View and click the Layout tab. Make sure rekordbox xml is checked off under Media Browser.
6. In this display view, double-click on the track whose beatgrid you want to import. You will be asked if you would like to overwrite the existing beatgrid data; choose yes.
